## Hosting vectara-answer

This guide provides specific instructions to help you host your `vectara-answer` application on one of the popular hosting providers.
We keep adding new hosting providers regularly - please let us know if you need instructions for a hosting provider that is not yet included.

### Overview

To run a hosted version of `vectara-answer` you would need to have two files: `.env` and `queries.json`.

To prepare the `.env` file, which combines the information from `config.yaml` and `secrets.toml`, run the following command:

`python3 prepare_config.py /path/to/<YOUR-CONFIG.yaml> <toml profile (usually default)>`

At the end of this process you should have two files ready to go:
1. `.env` generated by the above python3 command
2. `queries.json` that specifies the queries for your application.

### Deploy vectara-answer on Render

To deploy on Render, please follow these steps:

1. Sign Up/Log In: If you don't have a Render account, you'll need to create one. If you already have one, just log in.
2. Create New Service: Once you're logged in, click on the "New" button usually found on the dashboard and select "Web Service".
3. Choose "Deploy an existing image from a registry" and click "Next"
4. Specify Docker Image: In the "Image URL" fill in "vectara/vectara-answer" and click "Next"
5. Choose a name for your deployment (e.g. "vectara-answer"), and if you need to pick a region or leave the default. Then pick you instance type.
6. Click "Create Web Service"
7. Click "Environment", then "Add Secret File": name the file `.env`, and copy the contents of your local `.env` file
8. Now click "Add Secret File" again and this time name the file `queries.json`, and copy the contents of your local `queries.json` file
9. Click "Settings" and go to "Docker Command" and click "Edit", the put in the following command: 

`/bin/bash -c cp /etc/secrets/queries.json ./build/ && cp /etc/secrets/.env ./ && node server/index.js`

Then click "Save Changes", and your application should now be deployed.

### Deploy vectara-answer on Render Using Render Create Service API

Render provides the APIs to manage the services.

Follow these steps to deploy Vectara Answer with the Render API:

1. Create API Key: After logging in go to Account Settings and create the API Key. Checkout the [Render Docs](https://render.com/docs/api) for more information.
2. Check out the [Render Create Service API](https://api-docs.render.com/reference/create-service) to see the body params.
3. Following is the payload of the API to create the service using GitHub repo. Using the GitHub repo its deployed in the dev mode.
    #### Payload and NodeJs code to execute the request
   Note: envVars in the payload are for Vectara Docs. You can use your configuration as well.

    ```
    const sdk = require('api')('@render-api/v1.0#aiie8wizhlp1is9bu');
    sdk.auth(<API Key>);
    sdk.createService({
        type: 'web_service',
        autoDeploy: 'yes',
        serviceDetails: {
            pullRequestPreviewsEnabled: 'no',
            env: 'node',
            envSpecificDetails: {buildCommand: 'npm install', startCommand: 'npm run start'},
            plan: 'standard'
       },
       name: <Name of the service>,
       ownerId: <Render account Id> // Checkout Render Owners API for more details,
       repo: 'https://github.com/vectara/vectara-answer',
       branch: 'main',
       envVars: [
          {key: 'REACT_APP_corpus_id', value: '1'},
          {key: 'REACT_APP_customer_id', value: '1366999410'},
          {key: 'REACT_APP_api_key', value: 'zqt_UXrBcnI2UXINZkrv4g1tQPhzj02vfdtqYJIDiA'},
          {key: 'REACT_APP_endpoint', value: 'api.vectara.io'},
          {key: 'REACT_APP_app_title', value: 'Vectara Docs Search'},
          {key: 'REACT_APP_search_title', value: 'Vectara Docs Search'},
          {key: 'REACT_APP_search_description', value: 'All of Vectara\'s Platform Documentation'},
          {key: 'REACT_APP_questions', value: '["How do I enable hybrid search?","How is data encrypted?","What is a textless corpus?","How do I configure OAuth?"]'},
          {key: 'REACT_APP_enable_source_filters', value: 'False'},
          {key: 'REACT_APP_summary_default_language', value: 'eng'},
         {key: 'REACT_APP_summary_num_sentences', value: '3'},
         {key: 'REACT_APP_summary_num_results', value: '7'}
      ]
    })
   .then(({ data }) => console.log(data))
   .catch(err => console.error(err));
    ```
   Above code would create and deploy the Vectara Answer service on the Render. You can visit the [API docs](https://api-docs.render.com/reference/introduction) for more information.
   #### Note: You can't create free-tier services with the Render API. Please check out the Render plans for more details. 

